the next thing I want to talk about is
our three on buffer mantle
now this mandrel as you can see is 3/4
inch steel mandrel and it has all three
buffs mounted on it and we basically
made some changes in this mandrel when
we first started making it we had it
threaded on both ends and had a couple
of nuts here a lock nut and a regular
nut and they held this end of the the
set up and the other end had another nut
and they tightened up against those two
and that held all the wheels in place we
did find out though after we started
making the first mandrel that the
threads that were in here partially down
to the number two Morse taper had little
burrs on them and sometimes they would
jam in the lay spindle so the first
thing we did was to deburr those threads
and that worked pretty well but recently
we decided we would change it and take
the threads off here altogether so
instead of using threads on the nut down
here we're using this shaft collar and
that holds this end and then there is a
nut against the other end and you also
notice in this end here there is a
Center and that's where your a tail
stock from your lathe or your lathe tail
stock will go to hold the other end of
the mandrel now we also made recently
decided to make it a little bit shorter
we made it one inch shorter than we used
to have it because it just barely fits
in a jet mini lathe but it will fit in
quite well now and you've got a little
bit more here to grab a hold of it so
you can put it in your lathe tighten it
up like that and then when you turn it
on and we're running this at 1,800 rpms
on our lathe which is fine that's a good
speed for it and now you have all three
buffs here ready to go and it just saves
a bit a little bit of time now these
buffs I've also sanded them just like it
did my other buff with the shop vac so
that
are less dirty I'm not going to
demonstrate this but you can all see how
this works and it's been very popular
it's a good seller and we we can
recommend it another real popular
buffing product that we sell are these
bulb buffs they're made so that they are
round on the end and that allows you to
get down inside a bowl or goblet or some
hollow form that you want to polish the
inside and there's nothing there to
cause you problems inside no screws or
any hard surfaces on the outside of this
thing to do that now we make them in
three different sizes this is the 3-inch
size here you'll notice on the backside
of them they are color-coded
these are Delrin cups that the wheels
have pull down into to make the mushroom
shape this one is white for the white
diamond this one's yellow for the wax
and this one's red for the Tripoli and
that's how you tell them apart because
on the three inch and the four inch Bowl
buffs the material just like on our
large wheels changes from ones one type
of buff to the other there's linen linen
and flannel and then all flannel so we
want to make sure that you don't get a
mixed up once you start putting the
compound on of course you can always
tell which one a Tripoli is because it's
red but the other two the Buffs
themselves don't change color with the
addition of the wax or the white diamond
compound now back here we have the other
sizes here is the four-inch which is
quite a bit bigger of course you don't
need a buff as big as the inside of your
bowl a small buff will do a big bowl but
a big buff won't fit into a small bowl
so those are the things you have to
consider now in order to mount these of
us and use them you need to have more
speed than on our standard buffing
system because 1725 is fine for an
8-inch diameter buff
down to a two inch diameter buff your
surface speed is reduced quite a bit and
it won't really buff enough to do a good
job so you need to speed it up and
that's why we use we suggest that you
use the bow buffs on your lathe in order
to put them into a lathe you need a
holder here and what I've got here is a
number two Morse taper on one end and
this is a special adapter we make for
this purpose on the other end is a 5/8
tub and then we take our standard buffer
adapter that comes with our regular
buffer kits and you slide that on there
and tighten up it's got a flat Splott is
placed on top and tighten up your set
screws and then you can put this right
into your lathe like that if you're a
little concerned about this coming out
of your lathe because it is just in
there on a taper fit if you feel like
you want it to be a little more secure
the back end of this number 2 Morse
taper has a threaded hole and it will
take a quarter twenty thread you can buy
quarter twenty all thread at any
hardware store and you can cut a little
piece of that put it into your lathe
with a nut and a washer on the back end
and that will lock this in so it can't
possibly come out and that's probably a
good idea although they do seem to stay
in perfectly well and I've never had any
problem much with them coming out now I
want to make sure that my speed is right
now we're running this up around 3000
rpm we're pretty close to it and that's
a good speed because now you've got
plenty of surface speed for your buff
now you can you can sand these a little
bit too when you first start using it
would certainly wouldn't hurt and you
can see how much fuzz I'm getting off of
there I love here's my shot back
try to clean this one up a little bit
ah
that's the way you do that
you don't do it you'll get a face full
of limp
okay
now if you've got a bowl that you need
the buff the inside of you want to shine
it up like this one now this has already
been buffed I'm not going to clean all
of the polish off of that because it
looks pretty good but the process is
very simple you just put your compound
on here and then you go inside and go
around like that and that'll just do a
wonderful job of polishing up the inside
of your bowl just like this and that's
our boba